Update the recommendations about speculative upper bounds (#66)
input-output-hk/cardano-engineering-handbook: policy/haskell/packaging/versioning.md

A package MAY include an upper bound that excludes the next major version of a dependency, even if it is not known whether the next major version will break the package (e.g. because it has not been released yet).

#### Examples

The package `pkg-b` depends on `pkg-a`. 
`pkg-a` tends to have breaking changes in releases, so the developer of `pkg-b` decides to pin their dependency on `pkg-a` using a caret bound, which implies a (speculative) upper bound of the next major version.

The package `pkg-c` depends on `pkg-b`.
The developer of `pkg-c` really doesn't want to have to deal with bumping the upper bound on `pkg-b`, so they just leave it off.

> Note that due to the above policy about discovering incompatible versions, when a version of `pkg-b` is released that _does_ break `pkg-c`, the developer of `pkg-c` should publish revisions to exclude the breaking version of `pkg-b` from the released versions of `pkg-c`.

Reviewer: In such scenario a release of `pkg-b` can not succeed, unless there is a revision on `pkg-c`, because the CI will fail due to breakage. Therefore extra steps need to be taken by the person doing the releasing (in the same PR to CHaP). It can be of course relayed to the `pkg-c` maintainer that there is an incompatibility and that maintainer will do the revisions, but that would likely delay the release of `pkg-b`.
```suggestion
Note that due to the above policy about discovering incompatible versions, when a version of `pkg-b` is released that _does_ break `pkg-c`, the developer releasing `pkg-b` will have to publish revision(s) for `pkg-c`, that should exclude the breaking version of `pkg-b` from the released version(s) of `pkg-c`. Submitting a PR with same upper bounds or at least an issue on the source repository recording the breakage for `pkg-c` is also required.
```

Reviewer 2: I suddenly realise that fact that the CHaP builds all the packages (does it?) is indeed a major innovation.
If, on releasing pkg-b the CI only builds pkg-b, you won't realise that pkg-c is now broken.
If instead, on release pkg-b, we also build all the packages depending on pkg-b, we will discover that pkg-c is broken.

Author: Mmmm, and I hadn't realised that this moves the work!

When I wrote the section above about making revisions, the idea was that if `pkg-c` has bounds that are "too loose", then it should be the developer of `pkg-c`'s responsibility to fix them up with a revision. But because of the CHaP CI, `pkg-b` can't be released until `pkg-c`'s bounds are fixed, so the burden gets (implicitly) put onto the developer of `pkg-b`, which seems potentially bad?

I predict we'll have some more fights about this. If Bob tries to release their software and can't because 20 downstream packages have "recklessly" left out upper bounds, and so Bob has to do 20 revisions, I predict that Bob will be quite annoyed.

Reviewer: > If Bob tries to release their software and can't because 20 downstream packages have "recklessly" left out upper bounds, and so Bob has to do 20 revisions, I predict that Bob will be quite annoyed.

This is not a problem in practice. I get patches to open source packages all the time that fix the bounds. Precisely because it is not hard to add an upper bound. Removing a speculative bound is harder, because you don't know ahead of time if the upper bound was speculative or intentional.

Author: The point is that the person doing the upstream release is now _forced_ to patch all the downstreams with revisions, which may make them unhappy. Regardless, it's what will happen so I'll document it.

Reviewer: That is absolutely true that it might upset some people. If the person doing a release is unhappy by the breakage then they can always poke the maintainer of the downstream package that caused a problem to make a revision. It'll probably just take longer, as it usually goes when more people are involved :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer 2: I have to say I am ok with this workflow. What I care about is that all packages we publish are buildable. Who does the work is less relevant to me.

Author: Yes, it's better than being in a broken state! But I do think "who does the work" is quite important to the people doing the work, and people often get upset about having to do what they perceive as other people's work. But let's see what happens, maybe it will just be fine.
